One of the lucky winners of the Spar Win-A-Car competition, Ms Shallot Masindi, still cannot believe her good fortune, and how close she came to missing the call that was to change her life forever. Masindi said she received a call from someone on 11 May, informing her that she had won a car. Thinking it was a scam, she ended the call and ignored her phone when they tried to call her again. She only answered the persistent call when they phoned again the next day, telling her to visit her local Thohoyandou Spar to confirm her win. Her surprise was enormous, to say the least. She had won herself a brand-new Hyundai Grand 110s, plus a boot full of groceries. The car was handed over to her by Injabulo Property Holdings Limited CEO Mr Joe Lubisi, assisted by Thohoyandou Spar’s store manager, Mr Raymond Captain Mutangwa, and Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli at the Thohoyandou Spar on Monday, 6 June. The 36-year-old, unemployed, single mother of three from Mukumbani said she had never in her wildest dreams thought that she could win something big like a car. “I still cannot believe it has happened. I am extremely happy, and the car will make a big change in my life.” She plans on starting her own Bolt taxi service to take care of her kids. Mutangwa said the car was one of the 50 cars up for grabs by Spar customers nationally. “We are excited to again be among the stores to have produced a winner. Over the years, we have produced many winning customers who went home with trucks and cars,” he said. Lubisi thanked their customers and Thovhele Mphaphuli for their continued support. “This is a way of giving back to our customers. We have over the years delivered the best service to the community, and we are determined to continue delivering exceptional service to keep the people happy,” he said. Thovhele Mphaphuli in turn thanked the store for their good service. “We are happy to have a business like this who cares for the community; a business that gives back to the people. Continue doing good in our communities,” he said. 