The Thohoyandou Stadium will be a hive of activity this weekend. Three GladAfrica Championship League matches will be played there. The first match will be played on Friday afternoon, when Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila FC (TTM) will test their strength against Pretoria Callies. TTM and Callies are tied on 21 points. The two teams had failed to collect the maximum points in their matches last weekend. TTM played to a goalless draw with TS Sporting at the Kabokweni Stadium outside Nelspruit last Saturday, while Callies shared the spoils with Free State Stars in a 2-2 draw at the Goble Park Stadium in Bethlehem. Callies must keep an eagle’s eye on TTM’s strikers, Rhulani Manzini, Tumi Ngwepe and Tshepo Matete, or else they will concede an avalanche of goals. Black Leopards will host Hungry Lions FC at the same venue on Saturday afternoon. Lidoda duvha must win the match, no matter the cost, to enhance their chances of surviving the chop at the end of the season. Leopards are perched at the bottom of the log with 15 points, while Hungry Lions are in the 10th spot on the log standings with 25 points. Isaac Masia, Andiswa Ndawonde and Kyaan Bull will be expected to bring stability to the Leopards’ defence, while the Thohoyandou side will pin their scoring hopes on Daniel Gozar and Maboke Matlakala. The match not to be missed will be between Venda Football Academy (VFA) and JDR Stars at the same venue on Sunday. VFA and Stars are among the teams that are poised to win the league title. The Stars from Pretoria are lying in the third spot on the log standings with 34 points, while VFA are two points behind. VFA and Stars are still in mourning after losing their matches last weekend. VFA lost 0-1 to Richards Bay FC, while JDR Stars lost 1-2 to Platinum City Rovers. The other weekend fixtures are Richards Bay FC vs Polokwane City, TS Sporting vs Cape Town All Stars, Uthongathi FC vs Free State Stars, Cape Town Spurs vs Jomo Cosmos and Platinum City Rovers vs University of Pretoria FC. 