Four decades ago, Tshifhiwa Sinky Ndou-Netshapapame used to bunk school.  His uncle, Jonathan Netshapapame, then arranged with a group of strong boys to beat Ndou up to stop him from bunking classes at Matangari Primary School. Although disciplining a child in such a manner is a criminal offence today, this was not an uncommon practice during those times. His uncle Jonathan, who was a teacher at the time, says he was forced to enforce corporal punishment for his nephew to avoid the arrest of his elder brother, Ndou’s father, Matamela Netshapapame. During the time of the late president Patrick Mphephu-Ramabulana, a parent court be arrested and face prosecution if his or her child was not attending school. Fortunately, after the assault by the group of strong boys, Ndou says he never bunked school again from that day until he passed his matric in 1990 at Thengwe High School. “Although the beating was horrible, today when I look back, I thank my uncle because it helped me to change my attitude about school,” says Tshifhiwa. He distinctly remembers the day his uncle chased him up the mountain, after he realised that Tshifhiwa had skipped school. “Although my uncle was a very good athlete, that day I outran him and hid under the rocks in the mountains. That was the day he decided to organise a group of strong boys who cornered me and beat the hell out of me. Fortunately, it worked and today I am celebrating my first PhD,” said Ndou while addressing a gathering at one of his churches, The Precious Blood of Jesus Christian Church at Makonde village. The celebration, which was attended by members of the church from its Johannesburg and Pretoria branches, was held on Sunday, March 20. Professor Takalani Tshitangano, who was Ndou’s HOD of Public Health at the University of Venda when Ndou was working as a lecturer, also attended the celebration. Professor Tshitangano described Ndou as a hardworking person who was not afraid of challenges. Ndou is credited with initiating a Covid-19 response team at Univen.  According to Professor Tshitangano, “Ndou assembled a team of students from the faculty of Health Sciences, who helped to screen people who were coming onto the campus. This happened long before the government came up with screening tools for Covid-19 in public and private buildings,” said Professor Tshitangano. Professor Hellen Mavhandu-Mudzusi, Head of the Office of Graduate Studies & Research at Unisa, described Ndou as an amazing student who had worked hard and completed his studies within a record time of two years while she had been supervising him. Professor Daniel Mothoagae, Head of the Institute of Gender Studies at Unisa, encouraged Ndou, through Zoom, to use his doctor’s degree to change people’s lives, starting from his churches. Ndou thanked his wife, Jacobeth, and their four daughters for giving him time to study. He also thanked his aunt, Martha Ndou, who had persuaded her husband, the late Mr Muthuhadini Ndou, to finance Ndou’s studies at Univen. Ndou obtained his BSc honours degree in microbiology at the University of Limpopo. He then obtained his master’s degree in public health in biostatistics and epidemiology at Univen. Ndou has worked for several companies, including Irvin & Johnson, Adcock Ingram, Childline Limpopo, Transnet and Unisa as a researcher. 