Jonathan Kgoadi (38) is a very worried man, and his only hope lies with the people of Musina who he believes are the ones who can help him solve his problem. Although his story is a complicated one, he still believes that some light lies at the end of the tunnel for him to reclaim his normal life. Kgoadi wants to be united with his son, who was born from a woman in the Musina area in 2012. Kgoadi himself is from Mmotong village outside Polokwane. “Everything in my life has stopped and nothing is moving. Whenever I consult pastors and spiritual healers, they all tell me that nothing will move until I get my boy child and introduce him to my ancestors through a traditional ceremony. I have tried to find the boy on my own over the past five years, but without success.” He explains how his misery started. “I am a businessman who sells clothing to shops and individuals here in Limpopo. I went to Musina in 2012 to deliver my orders when I met this beautiful, ever-smiling woman in town, and we greeted. I took her number and asked her to visit me in my room at the Impala Lodge (now Musina Hotel), and she agreed. Unfortunately, I called her ‘mommy’ and she called me ‘daddy’, and I never bothered to ask her real name. I returned to Musina for a second time in 2012 and we spent another night together in my room. I then left and continued with my business in other parts of the country.” After a month, the lady called him and told him that she was pregnant with his baby. “We communicated for months until the baby was born and she told me that the baby was a boy. I kept promising that I would come to see the baby but, unfortunately, we lost contact and I presumed that she had moved on. I am married to my loving wife now, and all I need is to find the boy and do a cleansing ceremony, so that my things can move again,” he said. “I will only introduce the boy to my ancestors and then return him to his mother. I will contribute towards his upbringing. I am lucky because my current wife supports me wholeheartedly in my endeavour to unite with my boy,” he says. He describes the woman as being of average built, neither dark nor light skinned. The woman spoke Tshivenda and told him then that she stayed at Skoonplaas. “I now take responsibility for my carelessness because I never asked for her name, and I never visited her where she stayed. I am happy to share my picture in the Limpopo Mirror in the hope that the woman will recognise me and contact me.” If the woman in question recognises Kgoadi, or if anyone can help him unite with his son, contact him on 076 814 7234.” 