After a break of two weeks, the struggle for promotion and to escape the relegation axe will continue among the teams affiliated to the GladAfrica Championship League this weekend. The Thohoyandou Stadium will be a hive of activity throughout the weekend. The three local teams, Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM), Black Leopards and Venda Football Academy (VFA), will play their matches in front of their home crowds. TTM will battle it out for league points with Free State Stars at the venue this Friday afternoon. The visitors from Bethlehem will be fighting with the aim of enhancing their chances to finish their league programme among the top three teams and partake in the promotional playoffs. Stars are lying in the eighth position on the log standings with 32 points, eight behind the pace setters, Richards Bay FC. TTM must win the match to move out of the relegation zone. Vhadau Vha Damani are fighting for survival in the fourth spot from the bottom of the log. TTM’s number one goalie, Edmore Sibande, and the team’s sharpshooter, Rendani Ndou, will be available for selection. The duo watched the team’s last game from the grandstand because of injuries. Should he be given a chance, Ndou is expected to form a good combination with the team’s captain, Rhulani Manzini. Venda Football Academy will test their strength against Platinum City Rovers at the same venue on Saturday afternoon. A win against City Rovers is likely to push VFA to the second position on the log standings. The Thohoyandou side are currently perched in the fifth position with 37 points, three behind the log leaders, Richards Bay FC. The Rovers’ defenders will have a tough time against the strikers of VFA, Tau Rankoko, Rotondwa “Neymar” Mutsivhuli and Rophney Hlungwane. Black Leopards will host Jomo Cosmos on Sunday afternoon. The match will be a do-or-die affair for both Leopards and Cosmos as they are fighting for survival. The strikers of Cosmos will have to double their efforts to break Leopards’ defence, which is marshalled by Isaac Masia and Kenneth Nthatheni. The other weekend fixtures are Richards Bay FC vs Cape Town All Stars, Polokwane City vs JDR Stars, Cape Town Spurs vs Pretoria Callies, Uthongathi FC vs Hungry Lions and University of Pretoria vs TS Sporting. 