The bail application for two men accused of the kidnapping and murder of a Khubvi resident, Abraham Mulovhedzi, was postponed again this week, for a third time. Nyambeni Makhipha (38) and Simon Radzilani (35) are charged with kidnapping and brutally killing Mulovhedzi earlier this year, after he (Mulovhedzi) was apparently caught stealing from a hardware store. His body was dumped into a local dam and found nearly a week later (on 1 March) by a passer-by, who saw it floating in the dam and alerted the local community and police. One of those involved in the incident allegedly secretly made a video recording of the incident, showing how Mulovhedzi was assaulted. In the recording, the deceased allegedly called out the names of his attackers while pleading with them to spare his life. The video went viral and caused an outcry in the community, who called for the speedy arrest of the men named in the video. The accused’s bail applications were scheduled for 30 March this year, but because of time constraints, it was postponed to Monday, 4 April. On Monday, however, the bail applications were again postponed, this time to 12 April, as the presiding magistrate and prosecutor in the matter were not present. On Monday (12th) the case was again postponed to 21 April for a bail application, as the presiding magistrate in the matter was not available. The bail applications, which started on 24 March, were in the form of affidavits submitted by the accused’s respective legal representatives. The investigating officer, Lt Col Avhatakali Tshifularo, has already testified and was cross-examined by Radzilani’s representative, Advocate Mpanama of Mpanama Chambers. Tshifularo is due to be cross-examined by Makhipha’s attorney, Wanga Monyai of WE Monyai Attorneys. Meanwhile, a third suspect has been arrested and will appear together with the other suspects during their next appearance. Community leader Mr Robson Netshitungulu, who arrived at the court with other community members, just to find that the case had already been postponed, said that they were highly disappointed. “We came here to make our voices heard and let it be known that we are opposed to the granting of bail to the accused. We had hoped to hand over a memorandum, but it was postponed before we reached court. But there is nothing lost as we are going to sit down as a community and prepare for the next court date. We will be here again and (we) have all the hope that the court will listen to our plight and not grant the accused bail,” he said. 