The Thohoyandou police are searching for two suspects connected to the blatant murder of a prominent local attorney. Mr Mbambadzeni James Manwadu (46), a lawyer attached to the Legal Aid South Africa board in Thohoyandou, was gunned down in front of his home in Maniini Block K on Sunday evening at about 20:30. According to Limpopo police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo, Manwadu arrived home on the night of the incident, and as he was getting out of his vehicle to open the gate, he was reportedly approached by two suspects who shot him several times. “Following the incident, the police and emergency services were called, and the victim was certified dead at the scene. The motive is unknown at this stage and police investigations are still ongoing,” said Mojapelo. Anyone with information that can lead to the arrest of these suspects can contact Detective Sergeant Thabo Samuel Malapela on 060 852 8283, the Crime Stop number 08600 10111, or the nearest police station. Family spokesperson and sister of the deceased Ms Christina Manwadu said the family members were still deeply saddened and shocked by the incident. “We cannot understand why his assailants would kill him for no apparent reason,” she said. The head of Legal Aid SA in Thohoyandou, Mr Thomas Madzaga, who visited the bereaved family on Tuesday, accompanied by some of his co-workers, described the late Manwadu as a hard worker. “We have lost an asset to society; someone who selflessly served the interests of indigent people.” Madzaga said that, to his understanding, the deceased was not dealing with a specific case, where someone might have gotten upset with him, at the time of his death. Community leader Mr Bardwell Mufunwaini, who is also the chairperson of a Limpopo-based organisation, appealed to young people from the area to refrain from killings. Mufunwaini urged communities around to form so-called ‘street committees’ and to be on the lookout and work as one with the police. Manwadu is survived by his wife, Ms Dora Manwadu, and four children. A memorial service will be held for him on Thursday, 20 January, followed by his burial on Saturday, 22 January, in the family’s orchard in Muledane village, starting at 06:00. 