The violent death of a 35-year-old woman from Tshakhuma Diambele on Monday afternoon came as a shock to family members and residents in the area. The woman was allegedly stabbed to death by a 15-year-old boy. According to provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo, Ms Phathutshedzo Nemalumani arrived home from work at around 14:50. As her house was locked, she phoned her mother to enquire about the house keys and was reportedly directed to where the keys were kept. She apparently unlocked her house and went inside, where her assailant later attacked her. When Nemalumani’s son (also aged 15) arrived home from school, he found his mother lying dead on the floor in a pool of blood. The suspect, who was known to the deceased’s son, was also inside the house and allegedly started chasing him (the son) out of the house. The boy’s frantic screams alerted the neighbours, who came to his rescue. The police were called, and the suspect was arrested. The police have not yet established how the suspect had gained entry into the house or what the motive for the murder was, but Mojapelo said that housebreaking could not be ruled out. “The youth’s case will be processed in accordance with the Child Justice Act,” he said. The boy was assessed by social workers and taken to the Vuwani Magistrate’s Court, where he appeared in court on Tuesday. The case was postponed to 14 February for further investigation. The accused was taken to Mavhambe Child Care Centre, where he is still in custody. Nemalumani was an educator assistant since last year. According to Jabbie Ligege, the family spokesperson, Nemalumani was a very quiet lady. “The community members are deeply disturbed by her violent death, as everyone knew her as a loving, reserved person,” said Ligege. The incident has left communities across the district shocked and speechless. Yet, this alleged murder committed by a child is not the only one making headlines the past week. In the Western Cape, an 89-year-old woman was brutally beaten to death with a chair by a 15-year-old attacker on Sunday (23rd). The Provincial Commissioner of Police in Limpopo, Lt Gen Thembi Hadebe, called for proper and adequate parenting to minimise incidents of this nature. Save The Children, a child-oriented non-governmental organisation, weighed in on the upbringing of children. “We believe that children first experience violence in the home through domestic violence, or physical and humiliating punishment administered to them. Since children learn by modelling the behaviour of adults, they normally grow up believing violence is the norm and the quickest way to get what they want. This is why we see so many young people being so violent,” said Mamahlodi Masipa, an advisor at the organisation. Masipa appealed to parents to be role models and not expose their children to any form of violence.  “It is the parents’ responsibility to teach their children the correct way of dealing with problems, even when they do not agree with you.” She further urged the authorities at learning institutions not to ignore bullying behaviour by learners.