The chairperson of the ANC’s Sumbandila branch in Musina, Festos Mafela, has publicly challenged the outcome of the meeting of the ANC Regional General Council (RGC) the past weekend during which leaders were nominated ahead of the provincial conference. Mafela claims that the RGC does not have the mandate to nominate leaders as this must be done in consultation with the branches. The controversial Mafela is currently the Chief Whip in the Musina Local Municipality. In December last year, he put up a challenge to be elected as mayor and even tried to get the High Court to intervene. His application, however, was struck off the roll because it was regarded as not urgent. Following the past weekend’s meeting, the RGC announced its support of Stan Mathabatha, the current premier, to be elected as chairperson when the 10th provincial conference is held. The choices for deputy president and provincial secretary are, however, more controversial. Florence Radzilani gets the nod for deputy chairperson, while Danny Msiza is recommended for the position of provincial secretary. Both Radzilani and Msiza have been accused of playing a role in the plundering of the VBS Mutual Bank. The RGC’s nomination for deputy secretary is Basikopo Makamu, while Nakedi Sibanda-Kekana was nominated as provincial treasurer. Mafela criticised the process followed during the RGC meeting, saying that this was a platform during which a roadmap to the provincial conference should have been discussed. He believes the nominations should have been done at branch level. Mafela said that he and his branch had nominated Pule “Frelimo” Shai, the current chairperson of the Mopani region. He said Shai was a young, dynamic leader with the leadership skills needed to run the organisation. Cllr Gumani Mukwevho defended the decisions taken during the RGC meeting. “We have seen the leadership of Mathabatha, who is our current chairperson in the province,” she said. She said that Mathabatha was the best candidate to lead them for a third term. 