Just like Black Leopards, Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila FC (TTM) have good reason to celebrate. Apart from the fact that they were booted out of the Nedbank Cup KO Competition in the semi-final stage, TTM managed to move out of the GladAfrica relegation zone. On Sunday, TTM scored a 1-0 victory over Uthongathi FC at the Old Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. Learnmore Muyambo scored TTM’s all-important goal in the 26th minute. With only one fixture remaining before the end of the season, Vhadau Vha Damani are now lying in the fourth position from the bottom of the log with 34 points. Although they still have a match to play to wrap up their league programme, Jomo Cosmos and TS Sporting have already been relegated. Cosmos and TS Sporting are perched in the last two positions on the log standings with 25 and 28 points respectively. A win will not be enough to save TS Sporting from relegation as the team that are lying in the third-last position, Cape Town Spurs, are four points ahead of them. Although their relegation was already confirmed before their fixture last Sunday, Jomo Cosmos are not prepared to die a coward’s death. Ezenkosi, as they are affectionately called, registered their fourth victory this season when they beat Platinum City Rovers 1-0 at the Tsakane Stadium in Johannesburg. The race for automatic promotion is between Richards Bay FC and The University of Pretoria FC. Richards Bay FC are leading the pack with 53 points, two ahead of Amatuks. Richards Bay will need at least a draw in their final fixture against Cape Town Spurs to secure a place in the DStv Premiership Division. The only result that will see University of Pretoria gain automatic promotion is a win for them and a defeat for Richards Bay. Cape Town All Stars had already secured a place in the promotional playoffs. They are lying in the third spot on the log standings with 48 points. The champions will gain automatic promotion, while the teams that will finish in the second and third positions will join the 15th-placed team from the DStv Premiership Division in the promotional playoffs. 